# Render paper maps using Maperitive

This program creates a [Maperitive](http://maperitive.net/) script which renders the map for a given area to a bitmap file.

Running this application standalone does not make much sense, since it will only create a Maperitive script from the given input parameters. If your goal is to generate a map for a known area, then you can just use the existing functionality in Maperitive to do so.
However, [hikingmap](https://github.com/roelderickx/hikingmap) allows you to pipe its output to a third-party application such as hm-render-maperitive, resulting in a Maperitive script rendering all pages around a given gpx track.

## Prerequisites

There are no special requirements apart from a working installation of [python 3](https://www.python.org/) and of course [Maperitive](http://maperitive.net/).

## Usage

Assuming you have hikingmap installed, you can run the following command to pipe its output to hm-render-maperitive:

`hikingmap [HIKINGMAPOPTIONS] --gpx hikingtrack.gpx -- ./hm_render_maperitive.py [OPTIONS]`

(the actual command may differ depending on which operating system you run and where hikingmap and hm_render_maperitive.py can be found on disk)

Please consult the documentation of hikingmap for more information about its options. Options to hm-render-maperitive can be:

| Parameter | Description
| --------- | -----------
| `-d, --dpi` | Amount of detail to render in dots per inch, default 300
| `-f, --format` | Output format. Consult the documentation of the export-bitmap function in Maperitive for possible values, default png

### Output files

Hm-render-maperitive will generate one mscript file for each temporary gpx file generated by hikingmap. The temporary gpx file will be copied to the same location as the mscript file. Both files will have the same name composed by hikingmap, either with extension .gpx or .mscript.

If hikingmap is instructed to not generate an overview map or add waypoints every kilometer then no temporary gpx files are passed to hm-render-maperitive. This will result in an mscript file for each page, named according to the base filename parameter in hikingmap.

### Maperitive workflow

First of all you need to add a map datasource in Maperitive, using the `add-web-map` or `load-source` command. Next you can run the generated script(s):

`run-script [generated_script.mscript]`

The script adds the (temporary) gpx files passed by hikingmap as extra datasources and renders the requested bitmap files which can be printed afterwards. Because the index of the added datasources is unknown to the script it is impossible to automatically remove them at the end, so cleaning up is your own responsability. See the command `remove-source` or the map sources list in Maperitive.

